---
title: "003 Coffee"
date: 2021-03-26T09:38:56-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "coffee",
  "trade"
]
---

Coffee went from being something I knew about but had no experience
with, to a daily ritual and something I have a real love for, in like
the span of a couple months. It was freshman year of college, and the
dining hall had free coffee, and I would take it with some cream and
sugar. My friend Joe and I would kind of bond over coffee, I think he
was already a coffee drinker and the reason I took an interest to it
might have been a way to have something we could share and talk about.

Then at my first internship, at a hip software consultancy in Philly,
there was always good whole bean coffee stocked in the kitchen. And
they had a grinder, so we would always have a pot of freshly ground
and brewed craft coffee in the morning. I quickly became addicted.

I like the ritual of coffee. It's a short, low-effort, mechanical
activity that you can do every day. Sort of like an anchor, maybe. And
then you have a nice hot drink to enjoy while sitting and working on
something. Or if its a weekend, reading the paper or writing, maybe.

My love for coffee isn't just about the ritual and the drink,
though. I also like coffee because of coffee houses. Cafes, as they're
called today. The first coffee houses were meeting places for
intellectuals of the day to meet and talk about issues and business
and politics. The implication of "intellectuals of the day" is that
these people were overwhelmingly men, which is disgusting in
hindsight, but the concept is still beautiful. The concept of
community watering hole where relationships are formed and ideas are
shared and collaborations are started.

That's why a sort-of-secret dream of mine is that I want to open a
used book store with adjoining coffee shop, and resurrect the ideal
coffee house vibe. I would want to do it in a relatively large,
prominent city, so as to attract real intellectual heavy hitters, and
make it a place movements were formed and progress was made. That's
what I call a dream.

Anyway let's get back to coffee. The drink is actually really good. I
think it's an acquired taste, judging by the way I went from needing
cream and sugar to almost strictly drinking it black. I needed cream
and sugar at first because the taste was too bitter. But after maybe a
couple hundred cups I started to feel like those additions made it too
sweet and gave me kind of an off feeling in my stomach. So I started
drinking it black. It turned out it wasn't too bitter anymore, and I
had come to really love that bitterness. That plain, simple, dark,
bitterness.

There's a great scene in _The Baroque Cycle_ where Daniel Waterhouse
is drinking coffee for the first time. He's on a stakeout - spying on
Newton, if I recall correctly - in a coffee house and he orders a cup
of coffee. At first he doesn't like the taste of the coffee and
doesn't understand what anyone can see in the drink. And then before
he knows it he looks down and it turns out he's drained the cup. I
thought that nicely communicated something deep about coffee.

Coffee is cool because it is a direct line to thinking about the
global economy and trade. Not everywhere in the world is a good place
to grow coffee bean. Lots of places where millions of coffee drinkers
are not good places to grow coffee. But those people want their
coffee! And so what do we do? We pay people to travel to those places
that are suited for coffee growing and bring it back for us.

Again, the way this has happened historically is not exactly
palatable. My understanding is there are plenty of instances where
white people treated coffee growers, who are largely from weak
economies and nations, really shitty. They forced them to labor under
cheap or no wages. Standard imperial bullshit. But again, the concept
is beautiful! Global trade to satisfy a desire as strong as that for
coffee. Me being able to sit here at my counter in Palo Alto,
California, and drink coffee ground down from beans grown in
Africa. It's really very cool, and if coffee needed to be more
expensive to properly compensate everyone in the supply chain, I would
still buy it and enjoy it just as much or more than I do now.

Hmm, I haven't even mentioned the caffeine component to coffee yet. I
guess that's because I don't really think about it? When I started
drinking coffee regularly in college, I noticed the caffeine had
little effect on me. I didn't get super jittery or energetic, or
really even myself being more awake after a cup of coffee. I'm sure
there __are__ effects that caffeine has on me, it's a drug after all
and my body responds to chemicals lol. But I don't drink coffee
because I need it to wake up in the morning. I drink it because of the
ritual, how it tastes, and this tradition of smart ambitious people
drinking coffee and changing the world throughout history.

I also like mugs. I guess that's another thing. I like coffee
paraphernalia. The stuff I have right now isn't that nice. I have a
French press that works decently well but doesn't look great. I used
to use an aero press up until maybe six months ago, and that was even
uglier. But I have since found what is probably the grail coffee
maker, and that is the Chemex. That's what I will get next, maybe next
year, or when we move to New York City in the fall.

I also have a really nice electric kettle that has different
temperatures for different types of tea, one for coffee, too. And you
can set it to keep warm, which is what I usually do when I turn it on
before taking a shower in the morning.

That's what I have to say about coffee this morning: It is a nice
morning ritual, it is yummy, and it is part of a long tradition of
getting together and chatting about interesting things.
