---
title: "004 - Crypto"
date: 2021-03-27T15:05:41-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "crypto",
  "digital economy"
]
---

When I got to college in 2012 I had already read _Cryptonomicon_ and
it was my favorite book. At some point that year I also found out
about bitcoin, which was obviously like the ideas in _Cryptonomicon_
manifest in the real world. Real world digital gold. I thought it was
really cool, and I tried to download the software and start mining
bitcoin from my laptop in my freshman dorm room.

It was really hard to get everything working so I gave up.

Obviously my life could have been a lot different if I ended up
figuring out how to mine like even 100 coins and kept them through the
years.

But I've made my peace with that and it doesn't really bother me any
more.

I spent the intervening years not really taking crypto very seriously,
since I couldn't viscerally feel the problems it solves. I thought it
was intellectually cool but not something that would be worth spending
my time on.

In the last six months my perspective on crypto has totally changed. I
read a couple really good blog posts laying out the case for crypto,
and bitcoin specifically, and now I'm an optimistic bitcoiner. I even
am starting to have ideas for crypto apps -- the one I'm thinking
about right now is a Twitter integration that lets you tweet crypto at
people. I think it could be a really cool micropayments app, used for
supporting creators.

My belief in crypto is really made possible by a larger belief, that
the world can change fundamentally in the course of your life. When I
was a teenager, I didn't really believe this. I joke that I thought
the video calls from the show Pokemon would never be able to happen,
because it was just such futuristic technology.

I'm happy that I can look back and see how such a fundamental belief
of mine has changed over the years. It's good evidence that I'm
reasonably open minded and able to grow. Able to update when reality
tells me I'm wrong.

What do I think crypto will make possible in the next five years?

One thing is hopefully a flood of economic opportunity to developing
countries. Millions of people can use an internet connection and cheap
or free software on the web to make things and sell them to strangers
across the world. Before good crypto infrastructure, it was hard or
impossible to do cross border transactions. Crypto makes that easy.

What about the possibility that crypto will die? That it was just a
fad and regulators will make it ineffectual. Eh, I don't see that
happening, simply because of the decentralized nature of it. It's
regulation resistant, censorship resistant. It's like a cat you can't
put back in the bag.

Why am I so sure about that? Well, maybe I'm not even _so sure_. I'm
like reasonably sure. But anyway the reason is because crypto is
math. This idea that I'm kind of obsessed with right now is that you
can generate transactions and post them anywhere, in any form, and a
miner can pick it up and process it, and it's guaranteed that the
right person will receive the right amount of currency from the right
account. There's no sensitive information in the transaction, so it
can't be messed with by a bad actor, or a state government. That just
seems ridiculously powerful, and probably isn't being appreciated to
the extent that it will change the world.

The only cryptocurrency that I own right now is Bitcoin, because
that's the only one I feel like I understand well enough. And my
position on Bitcoin at the moment is that I'm not going to sell any of
it for years. It seems like a great store of value. I'm not sure at
what point it starts to become useful for payments. Maybe it never
will be used for that? Maybe it's just like the savings account of the
future. And day to day you just keep enough money in ETH or LTC or
something, and make your monthly payments with that, and put the rest
in BTC.

I could see that happening.

Regardless of what it looks like, I think cryptocurrency will
eventually be the highest volume and highest frequency medium for
transactions. People will be sending crypto across the world through
the internet billions of times per day to buy and sell legitimate
economic goods and services. Not just speculation, which I think is a
large part of the current crypto transactions. But like, you'll pay
for your Spotify subscription and Netflix and your Tesla with crypto
over the wire.

I love the idea of owning and running a business that does
micropayments. I don't know why. Maybe because there would be all this
activity of stuff passing through your system, and also because
everything passing through your system is a small piece of value going
from one person to another, and I just get excited about that because
I'm a data nerd and an internet idealist. I have this fantasy which
came to me when we were walking around the Venice Canals in LA in
early 2019. I was picturing myself sitting outside one of those nice,
cute houses, looking out at the peaceful water, and I had my laptop on
the table next to me with a dashboard up showing me all the millions
of transactions that my software was facilitating. And of course the
success of that business is what allowed me to buy a cute house on the
Venice Canals.

It's a little weird to think that a year ago, even like eight months
ago, I didn't know much about crypto and didn't take it very
seriously. Now I have a clear vision of what a future based on crypto
might look like, and I'm excited about contributing to that new layer
of the internet. This is the beauty of not planning things too far out
and not making commitments about your time too far in the future. I'm
able to read something on the internet one day that changes my mind
and makes me excited to learn and build something I previously had no
interest in. If I had lots of activities and obligations on my
calendar, I wouldn't be able to take advantage of that energy and move
in that new and exciting direction.



