---
title: "005 - Making Friends"
date: 2021-03-29T21:09:08-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "friends",
  "ambition",
  "reading"
]
---

I've always had friends, but I've never put much effort into making
friends. Ah, ok, that's already not true. In eighth grade I decided
for some deranged reason that only makes sense in the mind of a
teenager that I wanted to be popular. And so I started putting a lot
of effort into becoming friends with the popular kids. I'm not even
sure at this point how I bootstrapped that endeavor. Like, how did I
get a foot in the door of the inner circle of the popular kids? I
guess I'll never know, and I don't really care now, but probably I was
in class with one of them and we started talking. You know, the way
you can talk to someone completely above your social situation if you
get seated next to each other?

The point is I spent a few years trying to be popular. And it kind of
worked. I became legitimately good friends (I think) with a couple
kids who were at the top of the status hierarchy in school. I was
invited over to hang out after school and on weekends. I felt like I
was doing well.

But the thing is I wasn't like what I would now refer to as _natively
popular_. I was, and remain, _natively nerd_. My first love was
reading, fiction in particular. And I liked to talk about it. Over the
course of two years in middle school I downloaded a compendium of Star
Wars knowledge, a whole era's worth in that fictional universe, and
would jump at any opportunity to share in that experience with someone
else who had done the same. I had one friend at the time who connected
with me on that. We were best friends for years, and that friendship
felt a whole lot more real than what I was able to fake with the
popular kids for a while.

Why didn't I fit with the popular kids? I had different interests and
didn't have the social skills to smooth over those gaps. Now I can fit
in with lots of different kinds of people, because I know how to meet
them on their own terms, see what they're interested in, and
reciprocate a genuine curiosity in what they like and why they like
it. It's not fake interest. I'm not being shallow or manipulative. I
like people well enough to really care to get to know people who are
obviously not that similar to me. We probably won't become close
lifelong friends, but then again you can't be close lifelong friends
with everybody. And for the people who don't fit that way with you,
you don't want to just shun and never see them again. So the
alternative is to just have a less intimate and serious relationship,
but one where you can enjoy each other's company once in a while and
help each other out when possible.

Change of subject. A little. I started out by saying I never put much
effort into making friends. The way I phrased that is wrong and I've
explained why, but the thought I was thinking that didn't get quite
the right shape the first time around is I've never gone about making
friends in a careful and well-thought out manner. I've always made
friends through who I happened to be around at school, or who happened
to be taking the same group tennis lessons as me. I think I always
thought that was just how people made friends and that it was a
perfectly alright way to live. I'm of a different mind now, largely
because I have met very few people who I feel I can really relate to,
deep down, on things that I care a lot about.

I've met a few coincidentally through circumstances I described above:
activities like work and school. But at this point in my life, a
couple years after I finished college -- which in my mind is the last
thing that was planned out for me by my parents and society from the
moment my potential existence became known -- I'm realizing that I
would probably be a lot happier if I had a larger circle of people who
really _got me_.

The cool thing about today is that the internet exists, and that
Twitter exists. By nature of being on Twitter since March 2020 to get
news about COVID, I have stumbled across a community of really
interesting and friendly nerds who also want to make friends with
similar people through this magic we call the internet. Honestly great
timing.

And so I'm starting this relatively uncomfortable journey of putting
myself out on the internet for people to see, so that I might make
some real friends. I think I once thought that friends made online
were like less than. Like inferior to "real" friends. I like to think
that's something I have completely changed my mind about. I think you
can make great lifelong friends with people you meet in real life, but
I also think you can make that kind of friend on the internet. Also
internet dating is very cool, and I was an idiot in college when I
thought it was kind of sketchy and desperate. Me, who has had exactly
one girlfriend in his life. (I'm not sad about that, by the
way. Happily married to her now. Just saying my negative opinions on
internet dating were not really backed up by experience or anything
credible.)

This pivot to thinking making friends online is cool and that I want
to do it has the feeling of the early stages of an amazing long term
investment. Like, on any given day I will not post anything
interesting. But over years of posting some interesting things and
replying to and supporting other people who are posting some
interesting things, and then finding ways to connect and talk and help
each other, I feel like I could be participating in and contributing
to a hugely powerful social graph that changes the world.

Wow, I get kind of uncomfortable when I say that something that looks
so small now and that I might have a role in could "change the world."
It's like I can just feel people cringing at how ambitious that
sounds, and so I shy away from saying it because I don't want people
to cringe at me. But actually I'm going to keep it, and I'm going to
own it, because I think people should be more ambitious and society
should just cool it a little about people wanting good things for
themselves and others.
