---
title: "012 - Changing Yourself If It Makes Sense"
date: 2021-04-10T09:26:12-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "college",
  "personal growth",
  "coding"
]
---

When I was a kid I don't think I had much sense of identity. I just
kind of went to school and played tennis (so I guess I'm talking from
like 5 years old to maybe 11 or 12), hung out with friends, read
books. Looking back I basically consider myself a biological machine
responding mechanically to the inputs of my environment. There was
very little of what I would now call "free will" or "rational agency"
going into my decisions about what I liked or how I liked to spend my
time.

Then I got to be a teenager and I think I started to pick up some more
intentional interests. I got into tennis a lot more seriously. I
considered myself a "tennis person" whatever that meant to me. In
hindsight it's kind of embarrassing because I was never that good but
whatever, beside the point. I still liked reading a lot, but I think
that kind of fell off toward the end of high school. I was too focused
on being popular and being at the cool parties. Also super
embarrassing, I would do it a lot differently, but I guess that's how
life goes.

Then in my senior year of high school I found coding. I think coding
spoke to me in a way that tennis never did. I always wanted to do
great things with tennis, like play at a division one school, but I
never took responsibility over that goal. I didn't practice enough,
didn't care enough to be intentional about how I was getting better
and getting closer to that goal.

With coding it was entirely different. I didn't really know what
specific "great things" I wanted to do, more like I knew great things
were possible and I wanted to be able to do them. Also writing code
was super fun, so I started just spending hours thinking about and
practicing programming. The more I read online about famous
programmers and the hacker ethos, the more I saw myself in that
culture.

I had always considered myself an introvert and this just seemed like
a great place to be for introverts. It seemed like a typical
archetype: solo genius programmer, didn't care much about appearance
or what other people thought of them. I liked this, because I didn't
like putting in effort on appearance and believed that caring what
other people thought of you was a recipe for living a life that wasn't
your own and probably wouldn't make you very happy.

So when I went to college for computer science I kind of dove into
that identity. I didn't spend a lot of time making friends. I made
friends but they were the ones that were convenient - the people I got
along with in my dorm room.

Throughout college I was this person. Kind of a loner and spent a
ridiculous amount of time thinking about and writing code.

Then I got out of college and shortly realized a couple things: I was
very good at programming relative to what people expect from recent
graduates, and I did not have nearly the amount of social connection
in my life to make me really happy.

This was kind of a weird realization, that second part. And it didn't
happen at once, like it didn't just hit me one afternoon, at least not
that I can remember. But over time the belief crystallized in my mind
that I would have to change some things about myself if I wanted my
life to have more people in it.

And it didn't take too long to realize that would be ok. Me changing
some things about my life, that is. That's what this babble is
ostensibly about, the idea that you can change yourself to get things
you want, even if that change is one that you previously would have
thought unnecessary or stupid or misguided or whatever.

That's the core of it, I think. In high school and most of college, I
thought that people who spend time thinking about appearance and who
spend time flitting around from social event to social event were kind
of dumb and were just doing it for status or something like
that. Obviously I didn't fully understand it but that was my general
feeling.

And now I want to be that person because I see that bringing people
together is something I want in my life purely for the social
benefits, but also because you can only get big things done with other
people.

And so I'll change (am changing) myself to be someone who is good at
that. I got back on social media and am crafting an identity their
that I think will achieve my goals of meeting nice, interesting
people. I'm writing more online to make myself more legible to the
world.

I'm moving to a city with the explicit intention of using that
concentration of people to get out more and meet more people and make
more friends.

Maybe this doesn't seem like that big of a deal to someone reading
this, but if you knew me (or was inside my head) when I was in
college, the idea that I would be putting significant time and energy
into being more social would be astounding. You'd be like "who is this
person?" and that's kind of the question I ask myself once in a
while. I feel like a different person. It feels great, I feel more
powerful than that lonely programmer I used to be, but definitely
feels a lot different.

There are other things that I've changed about myself but this is the
biggest one for me and it's currently happening. I like being someone
who can change themselves and is ok changing themselves. It feels a
little bit like a super power. I'm not sure how many people think like
this or do it intentionally.

