---
title: "013 - Is The Internet A Cybernetic Appendage"
date: 2021-04-12T10:47:17-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "internet",
  "anger"
]
---

Some people make this reference to an idea that the internet, or
actually maybe more often the referent is the phone, anyway that this
thing is a cybernetic appendage. Like it's actually an extension of
your body or mind and it's kind of weird because we are all on the
same internet and so we share this extension of our mind.

Everyone has different experiences on the internet, so it's not the
same extension for everyone. But there is a ridiculous amount of
overlap so you definitely cannot discount the idea.

Do I agree? Is that what I came here to write?

I guess yeah, I do agree. For sure there has to be a more concrete
definition of what "cybernetic appendage" means, but I would probably
agree to a lot of definitions of that.

I feel like I'm always thinking about the internet. I'm always
thinking about the current state of my Twitter account, the current
state of conversations I'm having asynchronously with various people,
the current state of my projects, which are all on the internet and
about the internet.

I guess that's one thing that maybe makes it different, is that the
internet is my work. So maybe I can be forgiven for thinking so much
about it? haha. but I don't think it's different for other people. I
think other people who are not making a living from building things
out of the internet also think as much as me about their life
online. More so, actually. Even though I am "back on twitter" I tweet
like at most once or twice a day on average.

And I don't care that much. My internet life, image, avatar, persona,
whatever you want to call it is a project for me. I'm doing it because
I think it will bring me things I want, namely community and
professional opportunities. I think about it like a project, not like
a part of my life.

That might be a difference that sort of breaks the cybernetic
extension argument. Like, is your arm a project? Haha again. No. But
even outside of how I use the internet for work and my online persona
project, the internet is integrated into my life.

I look up where to go eat on the internet and make real world
decisions based on information like that that I got from the internet
cube I keep in my pocket. I book flights on the internet and travel
across the country and the world using plans I made and value I've
exchanged while sitting at my kitchen counter. The internet is
undoubtedly bound up in my life and everyone else who lives in the
tech world like me.

There are some parts of it that are less personal, less integrated,
less coupled, but there are enough parts of it that are so coupled to
my life that there's no use denying it is like a part of my body and
mind.

Which is honestly kind of cool. Like, I think a lot of people here
something negative when the concept is brought up in this
sense. People think that it must be bad to be tied to the internet and
computers so tightly, and that it's much more pure to like live an
ascetic life without electronics. Or they call for "more moderation"
or something.

Idk man, I think the internet is the best thing to ever happen to
humans. Like sure there is bad stuff on the internet. But you know
what was bad? World War II. The Armenian Genocide. The Killing Fields.

Is "the internet" as bad as that? I mean come on, we had plenty of bad
shit going on in the world before the internet, and the internet lets
us bring bad shit to light on the world stage and talk about it and
coordinate efforts to fix it.

Also, the internet is in its early stages...

Ok, I'm getting a little worked up here thinking about people who hate
on tech. I'm not going to think about them and am going to get back to
the point of this babble.

I've made up my mind. The internet, and our devices, are cybernetic
appendages. And I think that's freaking awesome.

I know a guy who thinks he is very wise. I won't name names, but let's
just say he fits the stereotype of 50-something dude who considers
himself very wise and experienced, but is actually quite dumb.

Anyway we are walking around the city one day and I'm looking up
directions on my phone, and he says to me one of the most empty and
shallow platitudes I've ever heard: "What would your generation do
without all this technology?" As if we rely on it to the point that we
would starve without it.

And I didn't say anything but my response to that is something like
"Well we would probably do whatever your generation did,
obviously. It's not like humans evolved to be stupider in one
generation, you dimwit. And then while everyone was bumbling around
with paper maps and asking strangers for directions, some smart people
would, again just like happened in your generation, build fucking
technology so we wouldn't have to do that stupid shit."

Haha wow some stuff is definitely coming up here. Not only do I hate
when people parrot idiotic things that they think are wise but don't
hold up to like a minute's scrutiny, I don't like this guy very much.

I think this is related to something I might talk about in another
babble this week. The lack of nuance in the public conversation. It's
one of those things I understand, but I don't understand. I've seen
people be so stupid so often that the inability to consider nuance in
any issue doesn't surprise me, and I understand it as people just
being stupid and tribal. But I don't understand the mechanism behind
it. I have a feeling to understand that I will need to read a bunch of
evolutionary psychology, which I'm not exactly interested in doing
soon; it just doesn't make it to the top three of my priority list
right now. But it's one of those things that is frustrating and
doesn't make sense yet.

