---
title: "015 - Need to Learn How to Play"
date: 2021-04-17T15:56:32-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "play",
  "infinite games",
  "stress",
  "personal growth"
]
---

I feel like the central tension in my life is not feeling like I'm
working towards the right thing. I don't know what the right thing is,
and maybe I am doing things that are bringing me closer to it, but it
doesn't always feel like it.

Maybe it felt like it when I won the $100 BTC from the most recent
1729 task. Because one thing I want to be good at is writing on
the internet, and winning money by writing good things on the internet
seems like nice validation of that goal. Also because it was a
competition put on by someone who I think is cool.

The thing I am ostensibly working on is building an internet
business. The problem is I don't know what internet business I want to
build, and so I'm just building a random one for experience.

Storyblanks is not the internet business I want to be running for
years to come. I want to spend at most a few years on it and get it to
a place where it generates some passive income. A few thousand dollars
a month would be amazing.

I suspect my feelings about growing my skills right now are not
calibrated correctly. Learning how to market Storyblanks and getting
it to make some money would feel monumental. But for some reason that
work just is not attractive to me at the moment. I would much rather
write random blog posts and think of different business ideas.

It's probably because I'm scared of not being good at this next
part. The marketing, the selling, the reaching out to lots of people
and inevitably having most of them not respond. The possibility that
some of them will not be nice to me.

Maybe if I just force myself to get started, to push past the not
being good at it. Maybe something will give. Some mental blocker that
makes this kind of work seem not fun. Maybe I can turn the way I feel
about marketing into the way I feel about coding.

What is it that makes coding so much fun?

Part of it is that I know something cool will come from it. Something
that _works_. Like a tangible program that you can run and see the
effects of.

Also it's just reliant on me. Like I don't have to get anyone else to
do anything. It's easier to get computers to do things than to get
people to do things.

Computers can't be mean to me. I have a very good relationship with
computers. I know sometimes they can be finicky and obscure, but I
also know I can pierce that obscurity and see through to what the real
issue is and fix it so that the computer and I are in harmony once
more.

I'm not so sure I can do that reliably with people.

But I need to have faith that I can learn. And perhaps I need to have
faith that it will work. That's another thing about my relationship
with computers: I know I can make it work. I'm a good enough
programmer that I can pretty much get a computer to do whatever I want
given enough time spent hammering at the problem. And I think I need
to adopt this attitude towards selling software.

If I spend enough time hammering at the problem, I can make a few
thousand dollars per month selling a word game editor.

Just like most of the time when I run a program and it doesn't work,
most of the people you reach out to will not result in any revenue.

But sometimes you will reach out to someone and they will give you
something that builds another brick into your business. The same way
sometimes when you run your program, after fixing 25 different errors,
it works.

And this is probably the reality of it, after all. It's just hard to
see and harder to act on because it's scary. Particularly for
engineers like me who have had so much success sitting alone in a cave
cranking out code. What a comfortable existence. I have this skill
that's so valuable and I can just sit in my house and make lots of
money from it on a schedule of my choosing.

Why would I change that status quo? Why would I put myself out into
the world and open myself up to humiliation? I'm doing just fine.

But of course the reason is I want more. I want more control over my
time. I want more money. I want to prove I can do it. To myself and to
everyone else. So I have to accept the possibility of humiliation. I
don't think I've made that so explicit to myself before. I think when
it has come up as a stray thought I've thought "yeah sure I need to
put myself out there." But this time I think I'm staying with the
thought longer and realizing what it implies.

It implies doing the work. Actually no, it implies that doing the work
is easier than I realized. Or rather, I can make it easier on myself
than I realized.

Up until now thinking about marketing and selling has been a thought
mired in the connotation of "work". Which is significant because to me
coding is not work. Coding is play.

If I can make the rest of the business play, then I can really unlock
something.

Wow, this is a powerful thought. Turn the things that will make you
powerful from work into play. Frame it so that you can be nimble and
lighthearted about it. You are not the work. You are doing the work
because that's how you play. This is just your current game, and you
are always playing games and so this one is not so special. You might
fail. You probably _will_ fall. But that's all just part of the game.

