---
title: "016 - Exploring Playfulness"
date: 2021-04-18T13:55:10-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "play",
  "infinite games",
  "stress",
  "personal growth"
]
---

I was not expecting to make any sort of breakthrough when I was
writing yesterday. I was kind of thinking to myself over the past few
days "when are you supposed to see results?" about this writing
thing. This word vomit thing. Visa says it helped him work out a bunch
of personal issues like self-confidence and self-love. Basically when
I got like the tenth one, I started wondering how it would happen.

Like, can you feel it happening in the moment? Like after I finish a
post will I be able to recognize some growth, something I figured out
that made me stronger? Or would I just look back on the whole project
and be able to see the ways in which I grew from when I started.

I think yesterday was the first example of finishing a specific post
and being able to say wow yeah I just figured something out.

The thing I figured out yesterday was this idea of play. Being
playful. I knew about this idea before, but I don't even think I had
scratched the surface of what it means to implement in your own
life. I was "intellectually aware" of it. But I hadn't yet put in the
effort that's probably required to implement it.

I sort of thought I had, though. I wouldn't have said "Yeah I've put
in the effort and I'm good at this." I would have said something like
"I understand the idea and I'm pretty good at it."

I might be good at it relative to some people, but I don't think I'm
good at it in terms of how good it's possible to get at it.

This is some bad writing but whatever.

And so the thing that happened yesterday was that I realized how
powerful it would be to actually get good at it. To put in the work of
figuring out how to be more playful with everything. Specifically
building my own company.

I was getting too hung up on being bad at marketing and not knowing
what to do to even get started. I was shying away from getting started
because I didn't like the idea of failing at it and it feels like
work.

But I didn't like the idea of failing at coding too. There was a time
when I would procrastinate on even personal projects because I was
scared of having to figure out something new. Now that feeling is
completely gone. I relish the opportunity to sit down and dive into
something new because I know I will be able to figure it out and I
like the thought of what will be on the other side.

I can feel this same way about marketing. I'm mentioning marketing in
particular here because that's the thing I have to do next for my
current project. But basically it applies to any aspect of building a
business that I will have to tackle over the next few years.

There is a tie in here with the idea of infinite games. Part of the
reason I might have been scared about the unfamiliar parts of building
a business is because I felt like I only had one shot at it. One shot
at making it work or I was a failure. I'm not sure I would have agreed
with that characterization, but looking back I think my actions
suggest it was true.

The thing is that is finite game thinking. Finite game thinking
because it implies there is an end. A finish line. A limited amount of
time and energy to put into this effort. And if I don't make something
work, if I don't succeed, within that limited amount of time, then I'm
a failure. I'm not sure that completely describes the mindset, but
it's getting close.

But infinite game thinking says there are many attempts you can make,
and it doesn't say anything about you if you fail for a while. The
reality is, you will fail for a while. That's a fundamental conflict
with finite game thinking. _You will fail for a while_, and so if there
is only a limited amount of time to make it work then it's impossible
to make work.

One part of untangling this hesitancy inside myself is that idea that
it's ok and expected to fail, and since you're going to have to fail a
bunch in order to get to the other side where you succeed, you might
as well get started as soon as possible.

The other part is that while you're learning and failing and stumbling
and trying and building small pieces of the puzzle, you can be having
a good time. On the other side of all this time spent figuring out is
what you want most in life. So why can't every part of the journey be
enjoyable. Trust the process. Love the process. Love the work, because
you don't have to frame it as just the work. You can frame it as a
piece of the puzzle that you're figuring out.

There's a better metaphor or framing than that but it's getting close.

You are choosing to do this and so you don't need to think of it like
work. In an open-world mindset you don't have to do anything you don't
want to. I lose track of that reality sometimes. Like when something
is happening at work to stress me out. I get all low-energy and kinda
depressed, when I can really just take it in stride. I'm doing my best
and that's all anyone can expect of me and honestly my best is quite
good. So just keep doing what you're doing and keep loving yourself
and then the work stops seeming so much like work, and more like play.

