---
title: "019 - Infinite Games"
date: 2021-04-22T09:07:35-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "infinite games",
  "personal growth",
  "play"
]
---

I've mentioned infinite games a few times before in word vomits, but I
realize I haven't dedicated a whole one to that concept yet. It's
about time, I'd say. It's one of the ideas that I'm working my way
around and through in mind my recently, because I think really
understanding it will do a lot for my happiness and sense of
fulfillment in life.

It will also probably help me figure out what to work on. What
directions to go in, what interests to pursue.

So what is an infinite game?

It's one with no boundaries. No time boundaries, no space boundaries,
no rule boundaries.

Does that even make sense? Like are you just describing everything?
Does that definition have any constraints? "A theory which predicts
everything contains no knowledge" and so forth.

One constraint is that it is playable. Meaning the players need to
know and accept that they are in fact playing the game. So I guess you
could say in an infinite game the players, if asked separately, would
describe roughly the same thing.

So in an infinite game there are players that know they are
playing. What is the point of playing? If there are no time
boundaries, then the game cannot end, and so there can be no winner.

The point of an infinite game is to keep playing. And this is my
favorite part. Since there are no rule boundaries, you have to keep
playing but you don't have to keep playing by the same rules. You can
grow in skill and power within the game and unlock new playing fields.

For instance, life is an infinite game as far as humans are
concerned. There is physics, sure, but you can do anything not ruled
out by the laws of physics. And it might very well be that physics in
this universe are not hard boundaries.

Ok I haven't gotten to the point of an infinite game yet. The point is
to keep playing. The point is to keep everyone playing. It's more fun
with friends, after all.

Since there can be no winner, an infinite game is positive sum. If
there is any analogy in an infinite game to the concept of winning in
a finite game, it is increasing your enjoyment of the game. Continuing
to satisfy the sense of fulfillment and joy you get from playing.

Leveling up and helping other people achieve their goals is how to
move forward in an infinite game.

The reason I think really grokking the concept of infinite game will
help me personally is because I believe life is an infinite game. And
framing life in this way gets me closer to the truth of things (I
claim), and by doing so I can live a happier and more fulfilling life.

Why is life an infinite game? Maybe some people need convincing of
that, and it would do me good to list out some reasons as talking
points.

1. You can choose what you want to spend your time on. But not only
   can you choose in the sense of picking from a list of options, you
   can create your own options.
2. You can create things from your imagination. The laws of physics
   are permissive and can be understood well enough to shape reality
   to your will.
3. You come into life at a point not of your choosing, but the laws of
   physics don't dictate that you leave the game at any point. We
   haven't figured out immortality but we will.

I guess those points apply to people who are born at the upper level
of privilege in the Earth of 2021, but a large absolute number of
people have that privilege. And that's what the ideal of life looks
like.

Is it unusual to think of life as an infinite game? Does it lead you
to live differently than you would otherwise?

In many cases probably yes. If life is an infinite game, when you
leave college it doesn't mean you're done learning. When you get
promoted a couple times it doesn't mean you are done growing
professionally. When you buy a house and have a salary that pays the
mortgage it doesn't mean you're done increasing your economic
opportunity.

Maybe it's where I grew up and the time period I grew up in, but
that's the attitude I see most people acting out. It never really
clicked with me that that would be a fulfilling way for me to live
life, but I didn't know why. I think one convincing framing is that I
have tended to think of life as an infinite game, one where the
objective is to always keep playing at higher and higher levels, even
after you have gotten to a minimal level of comfort.

I've latched onto the concept of leveling up because that is what is
most appealing to me right now. I'm at the beginning of my career and
I have a vision for where I want to go, and it involves a lot of
leveling up (that's what I'm trying to with these word vomits, even:
level up my writing and thinking skills). Can you play life as an
infinite game without this level up mentality?

What would that look like? I picture someone who finds a way to
comfortably cover all the bases of food and shelter and safety, and
then jumps from hobby to hobby, exploring lots of different areas but
not specializing or becoming expert in any one.

Maybe they would become expert in how to learn new skills and maybe
there are some generalizable lessons in the experience of practicing
at a superficial level a hundred hobbies. Actually I'm sure there are.

But can you be playing an infinite game if your later moves are not
building on earlier moves? Or are you just playing a series of
disjointed finite games?

I'm tempted to say that can still be categorized as an infinite
game. Because the way I see it the more important part of an infinite
game is the desire not to win or to finish but to keep playing. If the
joy and fulfillment of practicing hundreds of hobbies is what this
hypothetical person wants, and all they want is to keep doing that, ie
their peak self-actualization is just a flow state of learning one
hobby to a satisfactory intermediate level and then moving onto the
next, then I would say they are playing an infinite game.

Which illustrates an interesting delineation of two types of infinite
game: one in which later moves build off of earlier moves, and one in
which later moves stand on their own.

