---
title: "020 - You Still Have to Play Finite Games"
date: 2021-04-22T09:44:33-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "infinite games",
  "finite games",
  "play"
]
---

Even if you are an inifinite game player and fully grasp the continuum
of chained finite games that comprise your domain, you still have to
play finite games with finite game players. Maybe you could build like
a commune of infinite game players and not have to encounter any
finite game players, but then you'd be cutting yourself off from much
of the world and it's not worth it.

No, you have to play finite games with finite game players. Those
finite game players will approach those finite games in a certain
way. They will have a zero sum attitude that you don't share.

After all, any infinite game is positive sum, doesn't matter if the
move you are currently making is to play a finite game.

Despite having to play finite games, infinite game players adopt a
distinct attitude towards them that can serve to make the experience
better and even communicate to other infinite game players that you
are one of the same.

The attitude is that this one game is lower stakes than it would be if
it was the only game you were considering at the moment. Ah, the
infinite game is the meta-game to all finite games. You don't stop
playing an infinite game when you step into a finite game, you are
still playing the infinite game and the finite game is just the
current move.

You will still be playing the infinite game when the finite game is
over, no matter if you "won" or "lost" the finite game. In fact the
concepts of winning and losing finite games carry much less weight, if
any, (I'll have to think on this) when you fully adopt the infinite
game mentality. Because the point is not to win or lose your
meta-game, it's to keep playing. And unless the finite game is a
battle to the death, or something that causes you to be immprosined or
otherwise lose a huge amount of freedom, you are still playing and
that is the point.

It's almost like living in a different reality than finite game
players. Finite game players are the ones who get mad when things
don't go their way in a finite game. They get mad because they think
it's their only chance at anything and that the finite game has high
stakes.

I don't think being an infinite game player means not treating
anything as if it has high stakes, but rather learning to accept the
uncontrollability of things and resolving that as long as you are
playing well you will be happy.

It's a long term view of things, whereas finite game mentality is a
short term view of things.

The finite game mentality to starting a company and having it fail
after a little while is to be sad and beat yourself up for not having
succeeded in that endeavor. The infinite game mentality is to look at
the experience as a move in the game that didn't go well for reasons
you can probably decipher in retrospect. The infinite game mentality
says that the next attempt you make will be better because you are now
stronger for having made that move.

The infinite game player levels up after winning a finite game and
after losing a finite game.

Is there even a concept of winning and losing to an infinite game
player? Or is there just making a move and learning from it? I'm
sympathetic to that view at the moment. And let's just assume that the
moves you are making are not putting your health and/or safety at
risk. It's a bad move in the infinite game that does so. Because the
more you put those things at risk the higher chance you will not be
able to keep playing. The rewards able to be gained from something so
high risk are not the point of playing an infinite game; the point is
to keep playing. Anything that endangers that should be avoided.

Ok more on winning and losing and if those concepts even make
sense. What does it mean to win? It means you get whatever reward was
set aside for the winner, and it means that the other players have
lost. And so now what does it mean to lose? It means you don't get the
reward set aside for the winner.

And here's where perspectives diverge. If you are a finite game player
and you lose, it means you get nothing. You are where you started, or
worse of for having paid the cost associated with playing the finite
game.

If you are an infinite game player, you are better off because you
have gained the experience of having played in the finite game. And
the cost associated with playing in the game was one you had
previously determined was an acceptable payment for that
experience. Like I said, everything is not riding on winning any given
finite game, because that would endanger the ability to keep playing.

And what does winning mean for an infinite game player? For one thing
it also means that you get the experience from having played. But it
also means you get the rewards, which are presumably (if you are an
infinite game player that builds on previous moves) something you need
to unlock higher levels of the game. You entered into the game with
the knowledge that the cost would be an acceptable trade-off for the
experience of having played. But if you win, then that may unlock
something in your meta-game.

If you are a finite game player, winning means the game is over. It
also means you get the rewards, but the game is not part of anything
else.

Should infinite game players think of the outcome of finite games with
the terms "winning" and "losing"? I'm not sure. As an infinite game
player, I don't want to say I have "lost" a finite game because that
doesn't get across the idea that even by playing I have furthered my
interests.

I can't think of a word that would make sense to use in day to day
usage, since people would just be confused. But I will make an effort
to internally consider experiences with finite games without the
concepts of winning and losing.

