---
title: "028 - Vacation"
date: 2021-05-21T11:37:37-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "vacation",
  "reading"
]
---

It's been like two weeks since I did a word vomit. Maybe less, but it
feels like a long time. I was doing them really consistently for more
than a month so going more than like 2-3 days feels like ages.

Which is good, because it means I'm noticing the lack of them in my
routine and it's making me want to come back to writing them. I think
that's the sign of a habit that will stick around for a while.

The main reason I wan't doing these for a while was that I was on
vacation. I took six days off from work, which plus the weekend meant
an eight day stretch of zero obligations.

Of course I ended up spending the first three days of that vacation
feverishly hacking together the prototype of a new project I committed
to the day before my vacation. Lol.

That's actually the subject of another word vomit I want to write
next. About how I'm actually doing the things online that I wanted to
be doing when I started spending more time and energy on twitter back
in January.

Ok but vacation is the topic of this babble.

In short, vacation was amazing. I truly did feel like I was "getting
away." Removing myself from the pressures and always-pushing-forward
mentality that I have in my regular life of earning lots of money and
trying to make big things happen.

We went to Yosemite, which is a little more than a three hour drive
from our apartment in Palo Alto. We booked a room for five days and
four nights in the middle of the park, like an hour's drive through
the mountains and forest. The place was called Rush Creek Lodge, and
it really does have the vide of what I would call the quintessential
"mountain lodge." Maybe it's a little bit more bougie than what you
might picture as being the quintessential mountain lodge, but I think
there have always been upscale places like this, even back in the day.

That was another thing I noticed.... ok too much of a tangent, might
get back to it later. (Just to put a mark in the sand, I'm thinking of
the touristization of everything and how even majestic vistas like
Tunnel View feel a little bit less than because of it.)

What I'm really wanting to talk about here is vacation and what it did
for me personally. I made a serious effort not to care about work or
projects. That's a big thing for me. The only activity I allowed
myself to do during downtime was read and talk to friends on
twitter. I say "allowed myself" but actually it was what I wanted and
I didn't have to force myself to not work on stuff.

I played around with a code project on the first night, starting to
port some javascript over to typescript, but then I just left it for
the rest of the time and didn't do anything else that could be
considered work.

I had such a good time reading. I'm reading this book, _Worth the
Candle_, a rational fiction set in a dungeons and dragons world. It's
amazing. Like it is the most engaging and fun piece of fiction I have
read since HPMOR. I just sat outside on the patio of our room, which
looked out over the central pool and across to the restaurant and
field house, and read that book for hours every night. And some
mornings. It was so peaceful and relaxing.

I'm trying to convey how momentous it was to be able to relax, but I
don't think I'm getting it across. In my regular life, at home in the
apartment -- which is the only place I can spend time because of this
effing virus -- I'm always trying to optimize free time. And it's not
even that I force myself to pick some productive thing during
downtime, it's that I legitimately get bored of watching tv or stuff
like that. I legitimately have trained my brain to want to be
productive during any possible downtime. Which is a super cool thing,
on one hand. Like I do produce a lot of stuff, whether it's blog posts
or code projects. But it is also exhausting. I need a break once in a
while and it's hard to take a break without changing the scenery.

That's what this vacation was: a combination of being able to step
away from obligations and a change of scenery. I think that's the
perfect recipe for a vacation for me. I feel like that's the basic
definition of vacation for everyone, but oh well. I don't just pick
the definitions of things that everyone has for things; I like to come
up with my own definitions and reasons from first principles.

Ok I actually want to get back to that other thing now. About how
Yosemite felt less than because of all the tourist stuff. Let's first
start with scenes in the park, specifically Tunnel View. Tunnel View
is majestic, there's no other word for it, even when it's covered by
all the tourist trappings. But it's a little hard to push past those
trappings and see how majestic it really is.

I'm picturing the waterfall in my head, as it towers hundreds of feet
over a lush green valley of astoundingly tall trees. If you're able to
just think about that waterfall and that valley and the mountains
stretching off into the distance, and somehow block out the people
milling around you taking pictures, then you're able to experience
something real.

I think the touristization of everything makes it hard to experience
Yosemite as something real. Instead, it's an experience to be
collected. It's pictures to put up on social media to impress your
friends. It's a new Tinder profile picture that shows you posing in
front of El Capitan in your most outdoorsy gear.

Touristization makes it not about the place, and makes it about you. I
just have a hard time enjoying the place as much when it's being
marketed to me and everyone else.

Like ok, the thing I said to M was that it would be so much cooler to
come to Yosemite back when there were no people around and the place
hadn't been completely mapped out and there wasn't a fucking highway
winding it's way through the mountain giving access to anyone who
could rent a car. It would be so much cooler to stumble into Yosemite
valley as your tribe travelled across the land, happening on it
because that's the direction the game was going.

I think the idea I'm moving towards is that technology takes away the
wonder of the world. That's just the first iteration of the idea, the
first thing my mind formulates, but I don't think it's true. Or at
least, things are more complicated.

Technology is good. I believe that. Technology makes people live
longer and better. But it also moves the knowledge boundary
outward. Things that used to be mysterious and awesome become an entry
in a Wikipedia page that you can scan through anytime you want on the
brick in your pocket.

That shouldn't reduce wonder, though. Not knowing is not majestic. A
sense of mystery is not something to strive for. Knowledge about the
world is good, and strictly better than less knowledge about the
world, in my opinion. But I want to maintain the sense of amazement
about things.

The thing I probably don't like is the people, honestly. The consumer
culture that I outlined above which comes to Yosemite to collect an
experience. And obviously that's part of why I went to Yosemite. I'm
currently living on the west coast, but I won't be for much longer,
and I want to do the things that you do on the west coast.

I just wish you could live a more raw life. And I guess you can, it's
just not obvious how to do so. Because the obvious way to live life is
whatever ideas you get by osmosis from living in mainstream
society. You have to make an effort to counter those and make an
effort to search out different ideas.

