---
title: "029 - When Things Actually Work Out"
date: 2021-05-21T16:04:10-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "personal growth",
  "goals"
]
---

It's a strange feeling -- an amazing feeling, to be sure -- when
something that a few months ago you wished you had you suddenly
have. My experience with this is not universal, but I feel like it's
probably in the majority. In my life, several things that I've really
wanted to happen have happened, but probably more have not happened.

I did not go to a D1 college to play tennis. I did not have a
girlfriend in high school or college. I did not start a successful
startup before I was 25.

These were all things I wanted when I was growing up. (Ok, I know that
phrase is bad because obviously I am still "growing up." I mean like
before I would have considered myself a real adult.) I wanted them and
I kind of figured they might just happen.

They did not "just happen." I tried to practice tennis as much as
possible but I was not smart enough to practice in the right way. I do
believe looking back that I could have been good enough to go
division 1. But I didn't take it seriously enough and I just didn't
know how the right way to practice.

I did not have a girlfriend in high school because I was super weird
and had literally zero social skills to speak of. _Especially_ around
girls. I cringe just thinking about it. And in college I more or less
didn't care about having a girlfriend. I was there to get good at
programming (at least that's what I told myself), and in that sense it
worked out well.

I did not start a successful startup before I was 25. This one is a
little more nebulous. Like, I know that at certain points in my early
twenties, like 21-23 maybe, I didn't actually think I would start a
startup in the next few years. I figured I would go out to the valley
and get a bunch of experience and then around 28 or 30 start my first
company. But then M hated her job and quit in order to start a company
when I was 25, and so it became a goal to start a successful
company. We failed at that, also because we didn't really know what we
were doing and needed to go through the experience to realize that we
need to be much more intentional about starting the right sort of
company that fits our lifestyle. But anyway, that also did not "just
happen."

There has been a shift in my world view around how you get things you
want. I used to be of the mind that you kind of suggested your
interest in something in the right direction, and if the universe was
kind enough then it would give you what you wanted. I'm sorry. I grew
up in a nice white family in the suburbs and didn't know any better.

Now I know that in order to get things you want you generally have to
go out and make it happen in a major way. I used to not be ok with
doing that. I was much too shy. I think just in the past year I've
gotten over that shyness and now the idea of going out and getting
what I want excites me. I have always like "doing" things; building,
planning, etc. But now I genuinely enjoy the other crucial part of it,
which is finding people to help you on your journey.

Like I said I used to be super shy and the idea of bothering someone
with a question or anything just made me wither away into the corner.

Anyway I'm losing momentum on that line of thinking and I want to get
back to the heart of the thing that's happening right now. The thing
that sparked the topic for this word vomit is that I am starting a
project (tentatively a "business venture") with someone I met on
Twitter. And not just any rando. I'm starting this project with a
woman who has a large following in our corner of Twitter and who
commands a huge amount of respect by everyone in this group.

In January, which is when I think of myself as starting out on
Twitter, the idea of being in this situation was just... kind of
unthinkable? Like, it's exactly the thing that has been missing in my
journey as an internet business person (ok, I hate that phrase but
it's a little more corny than "internet entrepreneur" and so I use it
to signal that I don't take myself too seriously. But the phrase I
like most is "indie hacker"). The thing that was missing was a human
connection to other people on the internet. The thing that was missing
was friends and a community. I remember watching a Visa video about
how he got a bunch of followers on Twitter. And he says something like
"yeah, there are a couple hundred people who I've sort of brought into
this circle on twitter and they hang out with each other and reply to
each other's stuff and generally support each other." And I was like
"how do I join this thing."

And the weird thing is, it wasn't that hard. I just started tweeting
and replying to people and trying to be nice and supportive and
friendly. And before I knew it I like legitimately consider myself
internet friends with a couple of these really cool people.

I sort of needed a win, after all. I've been hacking on stuff all by
myself for the past like three years. The first year I was so scared
of showing anyone what I was building that I literally didn't. It took
me soooooo long to show whiteboard.js to anyone. Looking back that is
so embarrassing and such a waste of time.

But still, looking back I love to see how much I've grown. I'll show
anyone what I'm working on now. Literally just ask. I will talk your
ear off about every single project I have running if you will stick
around for it.

Ok, let's try to wrap up this vomit in a way that gets back to the
title. When things actually work out it is amazing. And things
actually _can_ work out. I think that's the point I'm writing
around. The feeling that I have but haven't pinned down yet. The
crucial part of it is putting yourself out there for long enough. How
long will depend, but whether or not it works out probably doesn't
depend. It's probably guaranteed. (Hmm, I don't like talking in
absolutes, so I don't know how I feel about this "guaranteed"
phrasing. I want to say it is, because it all just seems so clear to
me now. But I may just be an outlier in that I was able to pick up the
social skills and the technical skills and put them together in a way
that works. There may very well be people out there who will never
figure it out, even if they are trying. Which is sad.)

If you want things to work out, you have to start somewhere. But try
to start moving in the right direction, which is probably going to
involve bumping up against the real world, which means people. I think
that's the central point of it, at least for me. I liked hiding in my
lonely little cave where I could build things away from the opinions
and constraints of other people. But it was never going to lead to
where I want to go. I had to come to terms with that, which was not
easy and took me a few years. But it's truly the way forward, and the
sooner you can realize and accept that, the sooner things will start
actually working out.


