---
title: "032 - Figuring Out Life"
date: 2021-05-24T23:25:18-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "future",
  "personal growth"
]
---

I think it's a cultural meme where I come from that it takes a long
time to figure out life. I don't think that's a cultural meme
everywhere, and certainly not for all of time. Like there are
cultures, and there have been times, where for the majority if not all
people, what they will do in life is pretty much set from the time
they are born.

Is figuring out life a relatively new concept? Like, the idea of
taking many years to "find yourself" and grow up and mature and find a
place in the world where you feel comfortable, with people you like,
doing something that you find fulfilling.

I realize as I think beyond the surface of this idea that it's still,
in this world, in this time, where I come from, a relative
luxury. It's a privilege to have the time and the money and the space
to spend time on yourself. There is a little bit of nuance because so
many people just fall into whatever society want from them, and they
fall into it without realizing that's what they're doing.

They think they are doing what they want to be doing, but really there
is a superficial want of pleasing the people around them. And after
enough time they realize that pleasing the people around them wasn't
worth doing after all.

That's a pretty sweeping generalization that I don't have a lot to
back up. But I have seen it a few times, enough to say that it's a
real phenomenon.

Movies make a big deal out of "figuring out life." It's a well-trod
plot space to have someone in their twenties, in a relationship that
probably isn't going anywhere, ditto with their job. They are unhappy,
and it takes some random event to make them realize that they were
stuck in a rut, or maybe what the random event does is given them the
courage to break out of the rut and go to art school or something.

Although I have a serious problem with "finding yourself" by going to
art school.

I might have been talking about "figuring out life" up to this point
as if I don't think it's a serious and important thing. That's not
true. I think it's deadly serious and vitally important. One of the
saddest things in the world -- actually probably _the_ saddest thing in
the world to me is the waste of human potential and
fulfillment. Actually I'd like to rephrase that: the saddest thing in
the world to me is the waste of human fulfillment. I think the
potential thing is separate, different, and not as important as
fulfillment.

Let me explain why. Human potential is like how much technology we can
unlock, how much we can build, how much we can learn as a species,
etc. Human fulfillment is just the subjective experience of people
living good lives. People being happy.

I think realizing a certain amount of human potential is required to
have even a reasonable level of human fulfillment, but I don't think
human potential is something that is inherently worth caring about.

Now, our current world falls _far_ short of a tolerable mark in terms of
human fulfillment, and much of the reason for that is that I don't
think we have realized enough of human potential yet. So I do think we
should keep trying on the human potential dimension. (Sure, I also
think that we could be realizing a lot more human fulfillment than we
are just by rejiggering the distribution of resources that we
currently have. But that's probably not enough by itself.)

Ah, let me try to get back on track. The reason I brought up the thing
about being sad about not realizing human fulfillment is because it
has to do with the idea of figuring out life. In order for any given
human to live a fulfilling life, they need to know what fulfills
them. And this is absolutely not obvious to most people by
default. Maybe in a different society where norms were different and
childhood was different and involved a lot more free exploration, it
would be obvious by the time you become independent what is fulfilling
for you. But we do not live in that society.

We live in a society that stamps out any curiosity and sense of
exploration by the time you become independent, and so most people
don't even seriously embark on a quest to find what is fulfilling for
them. God this topic makes me veer into depressing territory. Trying
to right the ship...

Right. The regular process of growing up in this world does not teach
you what you find fulfilling. And so you need to spend some concerted
effort on finding out what that thing is. That's why I consider the
concept of "figuring out life" super important. I wish everyone had
more time to spend on it. And I wish it was more enouraged by our
institutions. It's kind of crazy that taking a gap year either before
or after college is like a fringe thing. There should be more money
spent on allowing young people to chill out and spend time on what
interests them. Thiel Fellowship type stuff.

I have a feeling there is a different direction I could take this
concept, and that is actually the more interesting direction. I just
went down like kind of a philosophical, generic lane with the
above. But I can kind of feel a more personal angle that is waiting
for me to peel back.

What do I think about how the concept of "figuring out life" applies
to me? I want to say I have the basics down.

Oh, before I forget, the thing that led me to the phrase "figuring out
life" was that I was thinking about how I had gotten really good at
programming early on in my life. Like by the time I was 24 (although
I'm much better now than I was at 24, but I was still pretty good
then). And the thing is, that's kind of all you need in order to live
a really comfortable life. I could basically just check out right
now. Find a job that isn't too hard, so something at a big company
that pays like twice as much as I make right now. Something remote so
I can live in a cheap, out of the way place and play video games and
smoke a bunch of reefer with my friends. No one could really argue
that I didn't have things figured out.

But to me, on the inside, that wouldn't be "having things figured
out." That would be stopping too early. Doesn't matter that I reached
a bar in my early twenties that lots of people spend decades without
reaching. For me that would be... boring? I guess is the word. I mean
I don't know for sure but I'm just imagining this hypothetical here. I
can just picture myself sitting around after work, without any big
challenge in my life, and it just feels so empty. And like not even my
life, honestly.

Even though from a certain perspective I have a lot of things figured
out, I am still "figuring out life." I'm still looking for that thing
that brings me the fulfillment necessary to live a good life.

