---
title: "033 - Moving"
date: 2021-05-26T11:13:11-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "friends",
  "personal growth",
  "future"
]
---

We just decided, yesterday, to move to New York City a month earlier
than we had originally planned. Actually maybe two months earlier?
Anyway, the point is we are starting the process right now, like
today. We are selling most of our stuff, packing up the rest, and
leaving California at the end of June. We are not coming back. Our
apartment will be leased until the end of September, but we just want
to get out and get to the city as soon as possible.

I'm super excited about moving. There are things I regret about the
time I spent in California. Or, rather, I regret things about the way
I chose to spend my time in California.

I moved to Silicon Valley kind of just thinking that by being here I
would become immersed in the startup culture and figure out how things
are done and learn everything necessary to start my own VC backed
company, and everything would be awesome.

I was 23, relax.

What ended up happening is we moved to Palo Alto, which in many
respects is the birth place of Silicon Valley. It is, however, no
longer the center of Silicon Valley. The center of SV is San
Francisco, a city that I have never liked. M and I were not super
social when we got out here. We mostly worked at our jobs and spent
the weekends by ourselves in our apartment. For all of 2019 we
traveled to somewhere else in the United States about once a month. We
didn't make any friends in SV until the end of 2019, and then fucking
COVID happened, so even though we felt up to the task of putting time
and effort into being more social at that point, we were forced to put
that project on hold.

Anyway so we are now vaccinated and itching to go somewhere more
exciting and make some new friends. We chose NYC because we have some
close friends there already and spent some amazing time there right
before the pandemic.

I've said this before to a couple people but I really like change.

It's not that I'm never happy, I'm actually happy most of the
time. It's that I like "the next step" of whatever it is. Like at
work, I want the company to grow and hire more people and get more
customers because that presents new challenges and new
opportunities. We are still building the same software but the context
we are building it in is different and in my opinion better, and so I
want that kind of change.

In my life I also want to grow and have new opportunities and new
challenges and meet new people and be introduced to new ideas. It
doesn't mean I'm unhappy with my current set of challenges and
opportunities and ideas, but the longer those are what I'm working
with, the more I feel like I'm stagnating. And I don't like
stagnating.

I wonder if there's anything to this concept of "chapters" in your
life. I think it's a metaphor that people commonly use to bucket
extended periods of time in their life so they can speak to someone
about some higher level idea. I find myself reaching for that metaphor
even when thinking of my own life to myself. Like, I consider myself a
radically different person to who I was ten years ago, even five years
ago, and so it helps me cope with the fact that I don't really like my
past self a lot by saying "it was a different chapter in my life."

Now I know I said I don't really like my past self a lot, but I don't
want to make it seem like I harbor any guilt or bad feeling toward
myself because of it. The opposite, in fact. I love that little kid a
lot, even if he was a shit most of the time. What more can you expect
from a human growing up in today's (or, rather, yesterday's) world?

Parenting is hard and mine did a pretty good job. There are things I
would change but such is life. I love my past self because he was
doing his best, and he is forgiven for not having the benefit of
experience.

Oh, right. Chapters in life. I buy into the usefulness of the
metaphor. And I think this chapter in my life is coming to a close and
a new one is starting. Which is super super exciting. I learned so
much during this chapter, even if there are things that I
regret. Which makes sense, right, like if you regret doing/not doing
something, then you can learn to do it right the next time around.

And what is exciting about this new chapter that I think is opening up
is that I will correct mistakes I made in this chapter.

For one, I will be so much more social. I had this idea of myself as
an introvert for much of my life. Probably until sometime last year. I
was shy and I didn't like showing people my ideas and I didn't really
feel like I had the energy to spend a lot of time around people. I've
come to realize that I can't achieve what I want to achieve if I don't
surround myself with good people. And having incorporated that fact
into my model of how the world works and how I want to live my life in
that world, it makes me genuinely want to be more social. Like it
gives me the energy to spend more time with people, and it destroys
the fear and shyness I had about showing people my ideas.

Maybe that's the only thing? I feel like I was leading into something
that had at least two bullet points. And the second one was probably
the thing about being less shy about showing people my ideas. But I
kind of wrapped that into the first and that's fine.

