---
title: "034 - Identity as a Writer"
date: 2021-05-27T21:14:14-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "writing",
  "identity"
]
---

What makes someone "a writer." Like, being "a writer" is an
occupation, certainly. If you have been paid for something you wrote
then you can consider yourself a writer. Actually as I write that I
realize that I have been paid for something I wrote: $100 BTC for a
blog post reviewing Balaji Srinivasan's post on network states.

If you get paid to write a book, or if you are regularly paid to write
articles for a website, you are a writer. Maybe a more general and
elegant criteria is "you make your living by writing."

But that's not a comprehensive definition. Scott Alexander is
certainly a writer, but he doesn't make his living from writing... oh
shit, actually since moving to Substack he actually does.

But long before that move, he was most certainly "a writer." So there
has to be something else that measures someone's writer-ness.

I don't actually think there is a hard objective definition that you
can come up with here. It's just interesting for me to play around
with this idea of identity as a writer because I'm trying to see how I
think of myself in terms of the writing I do. Or, a better way to
phrase it is "how I think about the part my writing plays in my
conception of myself."

I think I am a man of words. Whatever that means. I'm someone who, in
my own head, lives in the realm of ideas. That's in contrast to living
in the realm of emotions or the realm of politics or the realm of
status.

And in my mind writing is the medium in which ideas travel. Ideas
travel from person to person. I'm not sure I would consider an idea
real if it hasn't made the jump from one mind to another. Ehh, maybe
that's a little too strict. I do think solutions to physics problems
or math problems are real even when they are just known to one person.

But writing is the medium of ideas, and I live in the realm of ideas,
and so in one sense I live in writing. This sounds a little absurd but
I can't really deny it. So much of what I consider my identity comes
from ideas that I have mostly encountered through books. Whether it's
story books or textbooks. Or essays and blog posts online.

I am a person built from ideas I found out in the world.

Getting a little off topic (is that possible when there is no
topic?). I want to think about my writing. I've written over thirty
thousand words in the past two months, so on one hand I am producing a
lot of writing. Does that make me a writer? It doesn't really feel
that way to me. It _almost_ feels that way to me. But not quite. This
isn't _serious_ writing. This is just garbage. No one wants to read
this.

Ah, there's another definition of writer. Someone whose writing is
read by other people. And like the more people that read your writing,
the more serious you are. Although that doesn't quite hold up, because
more people read John Grisham than Jane Austen, but is Grisham a more
serious writer?

No, maybe it's like a binary thing, where you get to a certain number
of people reading your writing and then you're a writer. I think that
number could be quite low, like if ten people read your writing on a
regular basis, then you are a writer.

Oh shit, does this mean everyone on Twitter is a writer? That kind of
punctures a hole in this definition, because I don't think that's the
quality of "writer" that I'm going for. I want to say the writing has
to be more serious, but what does that mean? Is it just longer? Like
would 500 words be enough to qualify as a piece that if more than ten
people read then you're a writer?

At this point it's just getting ridiculous and is making me want to
say "who cares if the phrase "a writer" describes you?" If you want to
write, just fucking write. And that makes me a lot more
comfortable. Just shoving off all that expectation of living up to a
definition. I don't want to live up to such a nebulous definition. It
just means whatever the person saying it wants it to mean.

But I do want to do a certain kind of writing. I want to write essays,
I think. Like, essays on interesting and deep topics that have
something to do with the real world. That draw on history and lived
experience and research. That together make up a real respectable body
of work.

I know I can do this. I can think critically about things and make
interesting connections and come to useful conclusions about how to be
in this world, and what certain events mean. But I haven't found
something that really pulls me in and makes me want to write a lot
about. Maybe because I haven't looked. That's the most likely
answer. I kind of got to the step of "yeah, I want to write essays"
and haven't done the next step of going out and looking for things to
write essays about.

Because on some level I think essay ideas should just come to you, and
if they don't then you're boring and dumb and not worthy of writing
essays. I think that's probably not true, like if I go out and find
something I'm interested in writing about and then write a good essay,
that kind of proves that theory wrong. And that's totally something I
can see happening.

Some examples of writing that I like the style of are Allen
Farrrington, Alex Danco, Anna Gat. I've read their blogs recently and
enjoyed the way that writing feels.

Maybe this weekend I will go out to the internet and find something to
write an essay about.

