---
title: "036 - The Writing Brain I'm Trying to Build"
date: 2021-06-07T20:49:22-07:00
draft: false
---

There is a type of brain that can just push words out onto the page at
an alarming rate with relative ease. I want that brain. I don't
currently have that brain, but this project is me putting time and
energy directly toward a future where that is the brain I have. I just
think there is so much interesting stuff that gets lost because only
so much can fit inside your head and so you eventually forget and move
onto other interesting things without properly documenting what you
were thinking about previously.

The other reason I want this brain is because I think it would just
feel a lot lighter inside my head. Like I feel like I walk around with
a head full of stuff. There isn't much space. And the weird thing
about having a head full of thoughts is that thoughts are not like
inanimate objects. Thoughts move around on their own. Thoughts don't
sit in the corner quietly. They are trying to get out. And it becomes
uncomfortable when you don't have the tools or the whatever to
properly get them out in a timely manner.

Not only is getting them out on time important, you want to get them
out in the right form. Thoughts inside your head are not the same
thing as those same thoughts once they've been reified into actual
language. Real strings of characters and words that can be read and
interpreted by someone else. No, you need good, sharp tools for
getting thoughts out of your head in a form that satisfies you that
you actually processed and produced what you wanted to.

It's a weird feeling, that writing can be something I enjoy so much
more. I enjoy it enough right now, but it's such work. It takes mental
energy to get myself to sit down and type out one of these things.

And these things are the easiest writing I can do. Ah, no that's not
true. Tweeting is the easiest writing I can do, and I do that a fair
amount. That actually is pretty easy. Pushing a single thought out
onto the page turns out not to be hard for me at this point in life. I
only started tweeting like six months ago so who knows what it was
like before then - whether or not it would have felt as easy as it
does now.

But yeah, writing longer things is hard. Writing these is easy because
they are such low stakes, and it doesn't matter what words go where
because the point is volume, not quality.

Other writing, like writing stories or essays or even like slightly
formal blog posts is hard. So hard that I don't do it enough to get
better at it.

But I think that's an ok place to be. This, meaning these word vomits,
is the easiest way I can produce a lot of writing. Or, perhaps, it's
the only way I can reliably produce a lot of writing at the
moment. And I think it's working in that writing is becoming a little
bit easier.

The idea is that writing will become easier enough that putting
together a blog post or an essay or a story will get easy enough that
I can start to do it on a regular basis. Growth is incremental, is
what I'm saying.

Mmm, I guess there is one other type of writing that is pretty easy,
and actually fun, for me at the moment. That would be journalling by
hand. I love sitting down with a drink and cozying up to a desk with
just my fountain pen and my notebook, and jotting down some thoughts
that I've been thinking or recording what has been happening in our
life recently. That also feels super low stakes and like the words
don't need to be particularly good. I'm just talking to myself,
really. Telling myself what I've been up to.

Ok now to ask myself a question about the incremental growth
thing. Will writing lots of word vomits actually make me better at
writing stories? Maybe that's not even the question to be asking. I
don't need it to make me better at writing stories. I can work with if
it just made it easier for me to write stories. Because in all
likelihood the thing that makes you better at writing stories is
writing stories. I mean that's just the way things work. The way to
get better at running is to run; the way to get better at writing code
is to write code; the way to get better at cooking is to cook.

So I have to write stories to get better at it. But the thing holding
me back from writing stories is not that I am scared about writing
stories (although that is certainly part of it), it's that the act of
putting lots of words down on the page isn't that easy for me at the
moment.

If it just gets easier to put words on the page, then I will write
more stories, which will make me better at writing stores, which is A
Good Thing.

Just this framing is helping. Realizing that I don't care about
writing good stories is taking away some of the difficulty that I have
around thoughts about sitting down and writing stories. I should make
a twitter account that just posts stories. Or, maybe that account
doesn't have to _just_ post stories, like I could start doing this on my
alt. (Lol, I almost typed in the handle of the alt here, which would
kind of defeat the purpose because I made that alt in order to have
somewhere to write pseudonymously.)

Yeah, this is a thing that I will start doing. If I don't care about
the quality of the stories, and there are no stakes because the
stories are not attached to my name, then I can just start tweeting
out stories. Wow, reframing something that used to be difficult in a
way that makes the thought of doing it fun and exciting is a super
powerful thing.

