---
title: "038 - On Taste"
date: 2021-06-17T21:53:41-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "ambition",
  "goals",
  "financial freedom",
  "future",
  "personal growth",
  "taste"
]
---

There is a great Ira Glass quote about taste and how you build it. It
rings true to my experience. Basically it says that even people with
killer taste cannot produce up to their own standards when they are
just starting out. They have a vision for something great, and they
try to build it, but it turns out inevitably to look like shit.

This can be discouraging, but fear not, goes the quote. This is
expected. Iterate on your creation. Use your taste to guide the steps
you take in improving it. Be ruthless with your own work and slowly
push it towards meeting your high standards.

Only after going through that process many times over many years will
you start to regularly put out work that you are happy with and meets
the vision you have in your head.

It goes something like that, anyway. Those are my own words and I'm
paraphrasing and injecting some of my own ideas in their probably.

But the spirit of it is so core to what I'm trying to do with my life
right now. I think I'm in the grind phase. At work and personally. At
work could probably be its own thing so I'll just start with
personally and we will see how far that goes.

For the first five years of writing code I couldn't make things that
looked or worked as good as I wanted them to. As I knew they could
because I had an image in my head of what this thing should look and
feel like if it was well built. I couldn't do it. I couldn't make web
pages that looked the way I had in my head. I couldn't make tools that
were simple and easy to use in the way I had in my head. I couldn't
design systems that were elegant and understandable the way I knew
they could be designed.

But I've seen so much progress since then. I've become legitimately
good at writing code for the web, and I'm able to produce apps that
look and feel the way I picture them in my head.

I think there is a ways to go still, but just looking back on the
progress is encouraging and kind of remarkable.

I think I am someone with good taste. I think I am someone who started
out not being able to build beautiful things but by pushing and
iterating and grinding, and building that muscle memory, and learning
more tools that abstract away work I don't need to spend time on, I
have become someone who can build beautiful things.

When I think of taste right now I think of beautifully designed and
built web pages for tech companies. I'm sorry if that is weird or dumb
or whatever, but that's what it is. I think of them because I now
understand how much work is involved in bringing a beautiful web page
to life. hundreds of hours of previous practice and study by the
programmer. The time and resources necessary to fund that highly paid
programmer for the hours needed to build the site.

And the thing is there is always a company behind the websites that
come up in my head. I"m thinking of the GitHub site, the Stripe site,
etc. Great SaaS companies. The kind of company I want to build and
run.

That's part of what gets me fired up when thinking about these
sites. It's like: I know I can build that by spending the time.

Hmm, I'm getting so far away from the original "On Taste" idea but I
think I just needed a title and now I'm finding where I actually
wanted to go.

I think for the past couple years my side projects have largely been
practice. I've had an idea and it's a cool idea but for whatever
reason I haven't stuck with it long enough to turn it into
anything. I'm thinking about this now because I might have an idea
that means enough to me to stick with it and turn it into a real
thing.

That real thing being a SaaS company that makes me money and gives me
fulfillment.

Huh, I wasn't expecting to write "and gives me fulfillment", but I
did. That's just what I felt when I got to that point in the
sentence. But it rings so true.

Waking up every day and working on a company, on a product, that was
mine and people paid me for, and I thought was cool and technically
interesting and visually beautiful, would be so so so
fulfilling. That's what I want in my thirties.

Huh, I also have never thought of it like that. Probably because it
hasn't seemed so certain before. Starting a company was always such a
mystery to me and I thought it had so much to do with the idea. I
mean, I do think you need the right idea, but now I think that for
different reasons. Or at least, I need the right idea because
otherwise I will lose the interest and stop working on it before
anything comes of it.

But yeah, if I could start something now that makes me enough money by
the time I'm 30 to quit my job, I would love spending my thirties
working on that thing. And who knows what I would do with it. Grow it
maybe. Maybe just maintain it and chill for a couple years - reading
and writing and talking to people and traveling. But I just have this
deep conviction that the most fulfilling thing I can do for myself is
bring this company into existence.


