---
title: "039 - Getting Good at Programming"
date: 2021-06-19T02:10:40-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "coding",
  "personal growth"
]
---

I will just say off the bat that I am a little bit nervous to write
this one and I don't really know what I am going to say. Because
getting good at programming is something I feel in my bones, rather
than something that I know how to articulate to people.

What does getting good at programming feel like? I mean I guess it
feels like being able to write code for an hour without running it and
be confident that you are going in the right direction. I guess it
means being able to see a program not as the characters on the screen
and rather as the abstract data structures in your mind and how they
change and interact with each other as the program executes.

I was doing this all day today. I was writing code for a long time
without running it as a refactored a project I am working on. And I
looked at someone else's code and could tell what was and wasn't going
to work, and what the good solutions were to the things that weren't
going to work, all in a glance.

For me, this is what it is to get good at programming.

I'm only ten years in, though, so I hope there is more to it. I
imagine there must be, but I guess the nature of skill is that I can't
tell what it will actually look like. Otherwise maybe I would be there
already? Or maybe that's just something that sounds good, and if I
thought about it enough I could picture what it would look like to be
even better at programming than I am.

I have a friend who knows more about computers than I do. He knows
much more about the fundamental technology than I do. He knows how TCP
works, and exactly what happens when you press enter on a Google
search. I vaguely know how those things work. I know enough to build
software for the web. Good software, too. But he knows much more.

On one hand it makes me feel like he is a whole other level of
programmer from me. On the other hand I know a lot more about
JavaScript and tools for building web software than he does. He knows
how to build distributed systems and is really freaking good at it.

So on one hand I am good at programming but relative to the right
person I am a noob. Weird how that works. Don't really know how to
wrap my head around that relativity.

The way I do wrap my head around it in practice -- day to day -- is to
be really confident in my abilities. I know a lot and I can learn
fast, and I can produce quality work. I have a history of doing
so. And I am great to work with. I have many people who will vouch for
me on that.

All of that is what it has meant for me to get good at programming.

What does it mean to get _better_ at programming? For a while, like the
past two years, it was to get better at the long term thinking and
planning and driving forward of important initiatives for my team. I
think I am getting a handle on all that. I think I'm getting good at
that, too. And the next step perhaps is to go back to the hardcore
technical stuff and learn some next level programming skills. I want
to learn more about type theory and I want to figure out ways to
increase my leverage as one programmer.

I'm learning TypeScript. That's good. I think I have found a project
that I want to double down on and really make good.

Ok, most of this so far has been about what it feels like to get good
at programming. What did it feel like when I was _not_ good at
programming? That may be informative.

When I was just starting out, like the first few weeks. Well, more
like first so many months, it was like staring at a blank page and not
knowing the language. I didn't know the first words to start writing
on the page. I had something of a conception of the problem I was
trying to solve, but I didn't know any of the tools that would let me
solve it. Those tools being for loops and if statements and function.

Wow, so funny to think that the first sizable program I ever wrote was
a DSA encryption algorithm that didn't even work and was just about
the worst code I have ever seen.

Like, I didn't have the first idea about how to break something down
into functions that fit nicely together.

I basically wrote a "main" method that just did all the steps in
order, and most of it wasn't even correct. I was writing in vim I
think. That was the first editor I picked up, because my dad used
vim. I didn't really even think to try out emacs, and it was so
foreign to me for so long, which is hilarious now.

But anyway, yeah. I just wrote code on this encryption algorithm for a
while and never got it to work and eventually abandoned it. But that
was my first attempt at writing a choesive program. Interesting, at
least.

I stumbled around trying to write code for my own small projects for a
while. I attempted something of a text rpg in python my freshman year
of college. It never made it that far, but I did think about the
design of like rooms and navigation for a while.

Then sophomore year I was interested in chat programs so I wrote like
a small chat server and client, and tried to design my own
communication protocol. Hilarious that I didn't know about http and
realize that was the best way of doing things. I didn't even know
about JSON??!! What an idiot hahahah.

Then pre-junior year I explored Forth and Lisp for a while. That was
the year I started reading pg essays and I was like omg this is the
wisdom. More than anything that year I spent playing around with
tcl. That continued into my senior year when I wrote this cool web app
framework that was supposed to be a super general
component-to-component messaging system that could support really
powerful user programmability.

That whole thing led me to Smalltalk and Alan Kay. I thought about
that pretty seriously for a few months until I started my job at
Arcweb. That was when I started to learn how to actually write
software for the web that people use and depend on.

I learned a lot very quickly at Arcweb. Like I learned how to do real
development with Emacs, which means installing a bunch of packages
that do powerful things for you.

I also learned about docker and got some experience playing around
with AWS. That was fun and important.

But the real jump came from starting my job at Idiomatic and being
responsible for a production system. Nothing prepares you for the real
world like the real world. I'm really happy with everything I learned
from building and running the systems at Idiomatic. I've never had
impostor syndrome. I wonder why that is.


