---
title: "040 - Moving on From California"
date: 2021-06-30T22:40:52-07:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "personal growth",
  "future",
  "past"
]
---

Today is my last day in California. I'm sitting in the SFO airport
waiting for my flight back east to board. Figured it was a good time
to write a word vomit. Maybe process some stuff that I'm feeling.

The thing is I'm not feeling anything significant. I'm excited to go
back east, back home, is really how I think about it. I never got to
feel like Cali was home. I didn't make enough friends, didn't settle
in.

I didn't really like the place. Like the physical setting. Palo Alto
is certainly nice, but I didn't feel like I was really part of it. I
didn't live in one of the big houses. I didn't have a family and kids
to take to one of the nice schools. Mostly I hung out with Meghna and
we mostly worked. And for a whole year we traveled elsewhere in the
country once a month.

We made it up to San Francisco a few times. But as I might have
already written, I don't like that city. Never felt like it was
somewhere I wanted to be or go.

I learned a lot while in California. A lot about myself, about the
world, about life. But I probably would have learned those things
anywhere I was, since it was mostly just the result of getting older
and living longer.

I feel very clear about what I want to do next, as I leave Cali. I
want to be more social, I want to get stronger and in better shape, I
want to make Idiomatic successful, and I want to start making money
from my Canopy Charts project. I want to turn that project into
something significant.

I wasn't this clear about anything when I moved to Cali. I just had a
vague idea that I would start a company at some point. I didn't know
what it would do. I didn't know if it would be venture funded or
not. I didn't know if I would try to get into YC or not. I didn't know
anything.

I still don't know a lot. But I know a lot that I didn't know back
then, so that's probably good.

Yeah, that's really all I can think of at the moment. I'm just really
excited to start executing on this life that I know I want. And that's
really cool because I've never been so clear about what I want in
life. It seems at least for a few years I know what will be fulfilling
things to spend my time on. To fill my days with. And really what else
do you want in life, other than to care about and enjoy how you're
spending your time.
