---
title: "041 - Welcome Back"
date: 2021-11-27T16:08:46-05:00
draft: false
---

Ok so I've been on something of a hiatus from this thing. I wrote the
last post sitting at the San Francisco airport waiting for the flight
that would take me back to the east coast for the foreseeable future.
(And honestly I can't see myself living on the west coast again.)

That kicked off a move to New York City that has taken up pretty much
100% of my time since then. And so I haven't really had the time or
energy to be writing these word vomits.

Also I haven't felt the need to.

I think I got into these early this year because I felt stuck in some
way. Like I new there were moves to be made but I couldn't quite make
out what they were. I knew there were next steps right in front of me,
but they were kind of blurry and I couldn't make them out clearly
enough to be able to act on them.

I think I'm in a similar place now and that's really why I'm turning
back to this word vomit hobby. Obviously I can't know that this is
exactly what unblocked me from the uncertainty I was feeling earlier
this year around next steps, but I have a feeling this was the main
factor.

Basically I view these word vomits as forcing me to think through a
bunch of thoughts that were floating around in my head and not really
getting processed. And processing them cleared things out enough that
I was able to get see pretty clearly what the next thing I should do
was.

And it's not like these are traumatic thoughts floating around in my
head. I'm starting to think that I'm not like a lot of people in that
I don't have emotional trauma I need to address about my childhood or
anything before I can become functional or productive in my life. Or
happy, lol. That's kind of the main thing.

But yeah these things that are floating around in my head are
literally just thoughts. Loose ideas that come into my brain and that
I don't really care about but that I can't make go away until I write
something down about them.

And right ok so let me talk about what's going on now and why I think
it's a good idea to come back to this exercise.

Basically I have a bunch of things figured out. I have a main project,
which is Canopy Charts and which is my ten year plan for getting rich
and not needing a job anymore. I have my workout schedule which I'm
able to do now that the puppy is sleeping. I have my friends whom I
can see now that I live in the city and not some out of the way sleepy
suburb for new parents.

But I also need to write. It's the one thing that I haven't really
figured out enough to get into a groove that I'm happy working on for
years at a time. My job I can work on for years at a time and
hopefully that equity will pay off handsomely. Canopy Charts I can
work on for 10 years and hopefully make that into a cash machine.
Exercise and cooking I have mostly figured out how to incorporate into
life in order to be healthy.

But writing, I just don't have down yet.

All the setup I have. I'm now actually really happy with the most
recent setup. I have a home server that doesn't cost me anything to
run (except electricity). I have an open source platform that supports
a clean writing and publishing interface (Ghost). I just don't have
stuff that I really want to write about.

And that's what this is for. I think I'm in the same place that I was
earlier this year when I started this habit. I know there are steps in
front of me that I can take to my great benefit. But they are
currently a little too blurry and I need to clear some of the random
shit out that's floating around in my head in order to be able to see
exactly what those next steps are.

When I set up the blog a couple days ago I wrote down some titles that
seemed kind of interesting. Like they might be good topics to write
about. I still think some of them I will be able to turn into good
posts, but something is lacking in terms of big picture.

I can't clearly articulate _why_ I want to write this blog. Like, I
would really like to come up with an overarching thesis for the blog.
What is it about, what is it meant to accomplish, what can you expect
from it?

Without those guiding principle I don't think I will last very long in
writing it. I need that foundation in order to make it a decade long
project, which I want to do.

One idea is that it's just about me learning new things and expanding
my horizons. Intellectually. I mean that's fine but I don't think
that's enough to keep me motivated. I need it to mean something
externally. Like I want it to have external impact. And I don't know
what that is yet but I guess that's why I'm writing these vomits
again. I think they will lead me to it.

Not sure how long it will take, either. The last time around it took
like three months, but I wasn't writing these for such an explicit
purpose. Only in hindsight am I able to craft the narrative that these
word vomits helped me unlock that next step in the form of the Canopy
Charts idea. But I didn't set out to explicitly unlock something like
that.

This time, however, I kind of am setting out to do that intentionally.
So maybe it won't take that much time. In the past when I've actually
sat down and started writing to figure something out, it doesn't take
that long. So I'll try to do one of these every day, and maybe by the
end of this year I'll find what I'm looking for.
