---
title: "042 - What I Think About"
date: 2021-11-28T14:03:27-05:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "classics",
  "writing"
]
---

Sasha Chapin says that if you think you have writer's block you
actually are just lying to yourself about who you are and what you
think about. That if you feel like you don't have anything to write
about, you're wrong because obviously there are thoughts floating
around in your head and you should just look at them and put them down
on paper roughly in the order they occur to you.

Things rings true to me.

If I have said that I "have writer's block", then what I meant was not
that I literally don't have anything to write about. What I meant was
actually more in line with what Sasha's point is, which is that I
don't want to write about what I'm currently thinking about.

And why is that, I wonder?

Well, a lot of what I think about is how to start making money online
by starting a successful SaaS company. I think about how the internet
is the best distribution machine ever invented by man, and how I need
to learn how to harness it in order to make gobs of money so that I
can stop worrying about stupid things like holding down a job and how
expensive my coffee habit is (it's expensive but not too expensive).

Like, sure, I could write about that stuff but like I don't have
anything to say about it that people haven't already or aren't already
saying online. Also it's not the kind of writing that I want to read.

I want to read writing about history and economics and the world and
like high and lofty stuff. Well maybe not too high and lofty because
it also has to be entertaining and not to pretentious. SlateStarCodex
is a good example of the kind of writing I want to read.

But so if I'm always thinking about just starting a SaaS company how
am I supposed to write stuff like that? I mean I think the answer is
I'm not, and if I want to write stuff like that then I have to start
thinking about stuff like that.

Which is why I went and bought a complete set of the Harvard Classics
lol.

I'm going to read all of them, but I don't know in what order. Now
that I think about it I can just get started now by downloading a copy
of whatever I want to read first, then pick up wherever I am when the
books arrive in a week.

So yeah my plan to write interesting stuff is to become someone who
thinks interesting things.

By the way I kind of want to make a short detour here into the optics
of buying a complete set of the Harvard Classics. I mean I think to a
lot of people (I don't know who these people are they are just like
random internet haters so maybe they don't exist but for some reason
they have a voice in my head which sometimes I use to evaluate the
optics of certain decisions) this is a real pretentious thing to do.
(Am I using the word "pretentious" too much? I guess I'm just worried
about coming off as pretentious.)

And this is a fair judgement at first, because most people who own
complete sets of the Harvard Classics probably have not read even a
single volume. Buying a set and then not reading them aka buying a set
for the purpose of displaying it on your bookshelf so you can look
smart is pretentious.

But buying a set and then _actually reading them_ is not. In fact I
might go so far as to say that is somewhat impressive.

Anyway.

So yeah I am going to fill my head with interesting thoughts that
other people have thought so that I can filter them through my own
experience and then regurgitate them as hopefully interesting blog
posts.

I mean ok writing blog posts is probably not the best motivation for
reading the classics. And I don't think it's my only motivation. I
also am interested in seeing what the classics are all about because I
had this thought the other day that all the good ideas must have
already been written down somewhere. And everything that has been
produced since then is just copying or riffing on those foundational
good ideas.

(Well a lot of stuff is just bad ideas, actually)

And I kind of want to go to the source material and see what it's all
about. Like, what did these ideas look like when they were first being
crafted? Also I want to see what the fuss is all about like why are
these books "The Classics"?

Another thing about optics to talk about is that this collection of
classics is 100% male authors. That's kind of a no-no nowadays and if
you say too loudly that you are reading a collection of books that
doesn't include any female authors then you are liable to lose your
job or something.

Luckily my reading habits are not famous but it still bears thinking
about. Like is it a bad thing to not read books by women? And if I'm
going on a search for the origins of the good ideas, then isn't it
likely that plenty of these good ideas originated with women?

One problem is back when this collection was assembled women weren't
exactly first class citizens. So the guy who put this collection
together didn't really consider that women could have good ideas.

Obviously I can go searching for classic works by women (like Mary
Shelley) and I likely will. But the five foot shelf is an easy way to
get exposure to a bunch of the time-tested classics, and so that's
where I'm starting. If it turns out that I love reading classics and
want to continue after making my way through this collection, I'll be
better prepared to do my own research and will obviously not constrain
my selections to male authors.
