---
title: "044 - Outlook Axes"
date: 2021-11-28T16:40:08-05:00
draft: false
---

I consider myself an optimist, but I also have low expectations for
people in general. Like I don't think people in general are smart or
conscientious. Sometimes this confuses people because how can you be
an optimist and also think so little of people?

The way I reconcile this for myself is that optimism and cynicism fall
on orthogonal axes. Sliding your position across one does not have to
change your position on the other.

To me, optimism is the idea that everything will work out. That great
things are possible. That it's possible to be happy and get what you
want in life. So I would put "optimism" on one end, the positive end,
of this axis.

The opposite of optimism in my formulation is pessimism. Pessimism is
the view that things are going to go bad. You will not achieve what
you want in life and it is impossible to be happy so you shouldn't
even try.

Moving away from optimism is in my opinion moving toward pessimism,
and vice versa.

Cynicism, on the other hand, is having low expectations for people,
but not for outcomes. (This is actually less clear to me than I
thought it was so good thing I'm writing it down.)

...

Ok let's do some thinking because the explanatory post I thought I was
going to be able to write isn't ready yet because I don't actually
have as concrete a framework here as I thought.

My feeling is that there is something useful here in separating these
concepts into orthogonal axes, but I'm not sure yet where is best to
make the distinction.

One feeling is that there is something interesting about the specific
and the general. The narrow and the broad. The short term and the long
term.

For example, I think people make bad decisions all the time and yet
things still work out.

And then of course things don't work out for some people, so like how
can you be optimistic if it's possible that the universe could just
kill you at any moment.

I think the answer to that is the universe on average doesn't kill
people very often. Like sure, on an absolute basis the universe is
killing tons of people every day in horrific ways, but as a percentage
it's not that big. And as your situation improves in terms of safety
and access to resources (like being rich and white in America), those
numbers get a lot better.

Ok back to the general and specific thing. Optimism is the belief that
in general, over long time scales, things will work out. Cynicism is
the belief that in any individual instance, people are likely to
disappoint you.

How is this possible?

I think the answer is that to get to a good thing, the path does not
have to be perfect. And in fact the path doesn't even need to consist
of more good things than bad things.

Some bad decisions and mistakes and selfish behaviors will set you
back, and you will need two or more good things to offset a single bad
one. But a lot, and I think I believe most, bad decisions don't erase
progress. They just don't move the needle forward.

And so even though people are going around being dumb and mean all day
every day, once in a while people do something good and selfless and
that moves the needle forward. And every so often those good things
add up to move the needle forward enough that we cross a significant
milestone.

Ok let's think of a couple examples to illustrate the point.

Take women's suffrage. It's very unlikely that the women's suffrage
movement did so many good things that it offset and cancelled out all
the bad things done to women around preventing them from having a
vote. The thing is that wasn't what was needed. What was needed was
the support necessary to pass a law. Getting that support required
convincing certain people that it was in their interest to make the
female right to vote law, it did not require undoing all the wrongs
done to women around preventing them from having a say in society.

Before the 19th Amendment was passed giving women the right to vote,
the optimistic view would be that women will eventually get the right
to vote; that all this work is worth it because the desired outcome
will happen. The cynical view, which is possible to hold
simultaneously with the optimistic view, is that at the moment lots
people and maybe even a majority don't believe women should have the
right to vote.

I'm trying to come up with the opposite of cynical, and all I'm coming
up with so far is "naive". But I don't really want to use that because
it's kind of pejorative and I want to use terms that don't come along
with a value judgement. I'll keep thinking on it.

Changing directions here a bit. Why am I an optimist and a cynic? Why
do I think things will work out but that you can't expect much of
people in general?

I think the main reason is that this has been my experience. In my
life I have gotten what I wanted, not immediately but eventually. But
also that in the course of life people consistently show themselves to
be incompetent, mean, and selfish. And this isn't to dunk on people,
by the way. Being competent, nice, and generous all the time is
impossible, and even being those things most of the time takes an
incredible amount of self-work. Like really hard introspection that
will inevitably be painful. That's just how humans are built. We are
not wired to do those things well by default.

Another reason, although this is more of a nice-to-have than a
requirement, and I think if I didn't actually believe the world was
this way then this wouldn't make me adopt this outlook, is that
optimist/cynic seems like it allows the most happiness.

Not being an optimist would be depressing because you don't believe
anything good can happen. And not being a cynic means that people are
constantly falling short of your expectations and disappointing you.
Optimist/cynic allows you to feel good about the future but also not
be let down in the day to day.
