---
title: "045 - Hosting Stuff"
date: 2021-12-05T11:41:30-05:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "community"
]
---

Hosting people at my apartment is something I've just recently
discovered I really enjoy. It might have something to do with the fact
that only now do I have an apartment that is big enough to properly
have people over. We have a dedicated living room, not just a corner
of the studio where the couch is. And we have a bar area where we can
prepare drinks, and we have a pretty big open floor in the middle of
the apartment where we can put out a table and chairs to seat eight
people.

So it really feels like you can do a proper dinner party or have
people over for drinks and comfortably chat on the couch for hours.
And in fact we did just that on Friday: had some friends over who live
in the building and we me through our dogs.

I want to get better at hosting, and I want to do it more and in
different ways. Feels weird saying that since ten years ago, or even
five years ago I was not a person who like doing things like that. And
the thing is I thought I knew myself well enough to say that I would
never like doing things like that.

Well, I'm not completely sure about that. I think maybe if you had
asked me if I would ever be more social I might have said yes
eventually, I'm just not social right now for a reason (that reason
being getting good at programming). My answer may have depended on my
mood or something.

Ok in what ways do I want to do more hosting? I want to do dinner
parties, since we've done one of those and it proved to be quite a
success. I want to get good enough at dinner parties that I can do
them more casually. Both times we've had people over for dinner it's
caused the house to be like kind of a mess for a couple days
afterward. I don't feel like cleaning up the day after, because I
probably had a fair amount to drink during the party and if it's a
weekend day then I probably want to spend it reading or working on a
project or generally just fucking off and not doing chores.

So there has be to a way to better manage the mess that comes from
cooking a meal with multiple dishes. Might work to just clean stuff
right after we cook, although if we are cooking things right before
people come over then that wouldn't work out.

Ok, I'll think on that issue.

What's another thing we need to get better at for hosting dinner
parties? Actually I think we kind of have it down other than the mess
that comes with cooking. Everyone had such a good time both times
we've had people over so far, and the mess doesn't concern the guests
because they can just go home afterward.

The other type of hosting I want to start doing is like a coffee chat.
Basically we have this amazing living room with a huge sectional couch
and a comfy book nook and two velvet armchairs, and I want to have
people over to drink coffee (or tea or whatever) and talk about
something. Might be programming, might be startups, might be culture,
politics, travel, finances, etc. And I would love to make it a regular
thing. I was thinking Sunday mornings would be such a nice tradition.

I would just make it known that you can show up to my apartment
starting at 9am and expect to be greeted with coffee or tea and some
snacks, and will be able to have a fun conversation with old and even
new friends.

Yeah that's the main thing to solve right now about having people
over. Is who to have over? We have a few friends in the city, I won't
mention names because this is going on the internet but suffice to say
F&Y and E and D&E and A&A. Is there anyone else? Yeah I guess J and D
whom I met at the Calm Fund meetup. Any more? Not that I can think of
right now.

I mean this is definitely a good start. I'm not sure how many of that
group could show up on a weekly basis, and I don't think everyone
would want to since people have their own lives and everything.

So I really need a way to meet more people. Which obviously is what
twitter is for.

The thing is M doesn't like the idea of having people come over to our
house before we know them well. And that's reasonable. So I probably
need to have like a buffer location, where we can meet people a couple
of times and then once we feel comfortable with them invite them to
the weekly apartment chats. (And maybe they won't be weekly, but I
think it would be nice to have more than once a month.)

I can probably work with Vogelfrei on this, since he's trying to do
stuff very much in this vein. I'm actually pretty sure this is a good
idea and would lead to many new friendships and opportunities and good
times.

It makes me think of the early days of the Royal Society, and the
Whig's coffee house from The Baroque Cycle. Of course, that trilogy is
a heavy inspiration for my interest in starting something like this.

I have a pretty specific idea of what the actual get togethers would
look like, but what is uncertain at this point is where it will go.
That's both exciting in the uncertainty but also interesting to think
about possibilities.

Doubtful that we end up creating new science. Back in the early days
of the Royal Society there was a bunch of low hanging fruit but now
you can't really hope to do much without a full scale bio lab or a
particle collider.

Avenues that are more likely to pay off are independent internet
companies and collaborations on artistic projects like writing books
or papers or essays or even film because F and A will be working on
their new project.

I have to go clean the kitchen now (from Friday's dinner), but we will
explore the potential for this sort of thing in later entries.
