---
title: "048 - Writers Block"
date: 2021-12-31T11:30:05-05:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "discipline",
  "future",
  "health",
  "personal growth",
  "time management"
]
---

It's not that I have writer's block so much as I don't know how to
write what I want to write. That's not what I think of as writer's
block, anyway. What writer's block is to me is the inability write,
period.

Which is not what I have because I've actually been writing a fair
amount all the way through this whole thing of not being able to
write.

I keep coming back to the thing Sasha Chapin wrote about "writer's
block" which is that if you have writer's block then it's because you
are embarrassed about what you think about, or something like that.

He says because obviously you have thoughts in your head, you could
write them down and then you would be writing something. But if you
don't want to do that then it's because you don't think the things in
your head are worth writing down, for whatever reason.

I think the things in my head, at least at the surface level, are not
interesting to write down. Hmm, but why do I think that?

One thought is because I've written about it lots before. The ideas
about starting a solo software company, making enough money to quit my
job, how to start a solo software company, etc.

I don't know that I have anything more to say about that stuff, other
than what I've already said.

But I wonder if I do.

Have something more to say about that stuff.

Let's give it a shot.

Ok, one thing I've been thinking more seriously about related to my
journey of starting a successful software company is that there is a
lot of other stuff you have to keep up with while you're doing it.

Building a successful company is something that happens over the
course of years, not weeks or months, and so you can't neglect life
while you're doing it.

I mean, sure I guess you can, but it drastically lowers your chance of
success if you aren't eating well, exercising, seeing friends,
showering, etc.

And I've only been OK at keeping up with all of these things so far in
my own journey. I know I need to get better, and that's one of the
things I'm excited to do in 2022. I'm going to put the final pieces
into place as far as rounding out my life.

I'm going to start eating well: takeout/restaurant at most like once
or twice per month. I'm going to start working out: lifting 3-4 times
per week. And I'm going to keep up a good sleep schedule through all
of this: something like 10pm to 6am.

I'd also like to read a lot, which I know I can do if I just do 20-30
minutes before bed every day. It's one of those things where the time
you spend every day doesn't seem like a lot but if you do it every day
instead of just never doing it, then it adds up way faster than you
realize.

The image I have in my head of myself when I'm able to do all these
things is just like a fucking super human. Like, on the one hand I
know it's possible, and I'm confident I can do it. And on the other
hand it's like holy shit I would literally be the best version of
myself if all of these things came together.

Would I have a chance to write every day? It's definitely possible. If
I wake up at 6am and go to the gym and am back by like 7am, then clean
the kitchen until 8am, then shower and make coffee, I can probably
start writing at like 8:45am, bang out a blog post, and start work by
10am. Which is a fine schedule.

So yeah, I think that's what I have more to say about the whole
starting a solo saas company journey thing. I have most of the pieces
together, I just need to round out my life in a couple key areas and
then it's just straight execution and maintenance of that schedule.

Of course, it can't be so rigid. There has to be slack. Weekends might
have to be unscheduled. Vacation will be taken. I won't build myself
into a schedule that drives me mad.

I'm not even sure I'm capable of doing that. My personality is such
that I'm usually, if not always, incapable of staying in situations
that I don't like. So the trick will be following the schedule, not
worrying that I'm killing myself.

I guess I'm excited to get started on this.

I don't feel good about the shape I'm in; I eat way too much takeout
and don't exercise. But I knew that it might take until the end of
this year to get to a point where I could start doing that again. A
couple big disruptions this year.

I'm also excited to start making moves for Canopy Charts. I feel
really good about the feedback I've gotten so far, and I even have one
potential customer who is ready to start paying for the service once I
had a couple features.

I feel good about the likely outcome once I start putting a lot of
time and energy into outreach. Might actually start making some money
online next year.

But right now I'm on vacation, and so I'm not pushing myself to get
started with any of those efforts yet. I think about doing them every
day, and I know I could get started with any or all of them. But I
think it's important to take time off. Like, actually off, where I
read and watch tv and eat yummy food and write and work on something
random and short term just for fun.

I'm doing a good job of that this vacation. I'm writing a bunch, I've
seen friends and family, I'm watching some good tv, I'm eating lots of
good food (maybe a little too much, though, since right now I feel
pretty bloated).

The future looks bright.
