---
title: "049 - Notes on The Journal of John Woolman"
date: 2022-01-04T01:47:57-05:00
draft: false
tags: [
  "classics",
  "identity",
  "reading"
]
---

Just finished *The Journal of John Woolman*. It was highly interesting
for a small number of reasons (as opposed to highly interesting for a
large number of somewhat interesting reasons).

He lives a principled life in a way that is uncommon in today's world.

He believes in God in a way you don't see in today's world, at least
outside of weird Evangelical communities.

I think the principled thing is the one that's interesting to me and
what I want to write a post about. Was thinking of calling it John
Woolman and the Case for Principles.

What is it about his principles?

Well, he has principles, and he follows them. Which seems dumb but it
actually leads to really interesting life decisions.

The first example that comes up in the book is when he throws a stone
and kills a mother bird, and then decides that the merciful thing to
do is to kill both of the children in the nest.

I mean, that's kind of a fucked up thing to do and obviously
incredibly unpleasant. To intentionally kill to baby birds. But he
does it – forces himself to do it – because he believes, based on what
he knows about the word of God, that it is the right thing to do.

It's the kind of first principles thinking (literally) that you just
don't see nowadays.

More examples:

- He thinks it's bad that white men sell natives rum because of how it
  ruins their lives
- He thinks slavery is bad and tries to convince Friends not to own
  slaves. And he becomes physically uncomfortable when around people
  who own slaves
- He is uncomfortable consuming or using products that come from slave
  labor

Ok but what would be the point of a post on principles?

I think the point may be that it's an easier life to live when you
have some core belief about how the world is and how you should act
inside of it.

Actually this might be a separate reason that I should treat
separately, at least initially. It may come to intertwine with the
principles thing.

Anyway.

Toward the end of the book this thing clicked for me about this guy's
life: He thinks he knows the truth of the world. He thinks that the
word of God is the literal core truth of the world and if he can just
be enough of a Christian to follow it as much as possible, he's doing
the right thing and that is the answer.

I think this hit for me personally because I don't think there is a
literal core truth of the world. I don't think that in every situation
there is a right thing to do that can be derived from some ancient
text if you just understand it well enough and have the strength of
will to follow whatever it says.

This is where it ties in with principles, which is: ok so maybe it's
not an ancient text that gives you the answers, but what if you come
up with a set of your own principles that are general enough to guide
you in decisionmaking and actions throughout every situation in life?

Then isn't that just as good as far as removing the self-doubt from
your life?

This is really interesting.

Ok more about why this is personal. This guy has a way of removing
doubt from his life.

Funny because I think I model my life as not having that much doubt in
it, but then I read this book and I realize that I'm kind of pissed in
a weird way that this guy has a system that lets him cast doubt away
from his mind.

Why do I not like this?

Because I constantly struggle with doubt, obviously. Whatever
roundabout thinking I use to get there, that's obviously the answer:
you don't like that someone has found a system that tells them the
answers to life because you are constantly wondering if the decisions
you are making in your own life are correct.

Wow, but the doubt that I have in my life is like buried way below the
surface. Not in a terribly bad way, I think, but in a way that it
doesn't come up often and maybe it should, because this is a weird and
unexpected thing that is happening in my brain right now.

I've buried the doubt because I came up with answers that I think are
as good as you're going to get. I don't know whether I should be
working at Big Tech and saving as much money as possible. Or if what
I'm doing by taking a risk at a startup and working on my own business
is the better plan.

I mean I think there probably is no sense in framing it as one
"better" decision than the other. There is only whatever outcomes each
would lead to, and we can't know what outcomes each would lead to,
because I only have the chance to live one of them out.

And I kind of know that but haven't made it so explicit as to have
written it down and really processed it for myself. So when I read
about a guy who thinks he has a way to find the answers to life, it
kind of sets me off because like, first of all no he doesn't, and
second of all how dare he even think so.

But then again, reading his journal I mean I think the guy probably
lived one hell of a good life. I think he probably found fulfillment
and he probably did affect significant change within his community by
helping those around him live fulfilling and helpful lives.

And so how do I reconcile the fact that I think the system he was
using was wrong, with the fact that I am probably not as happy as him.
Yet.
